.TH MERCK-COMPARE 1 "March 2026" "Merck Document Comparison" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
merck-compare \- compare two Word .docx files and emit Track Changes markup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B merck-compare
\fB\-\-original\fR \fIPATH\fR \fB\-\-revised\fR \fIPATH\fR \fB\-\-output\fR \fIPATH\fR
.br
.RS
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB\-\-author\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-\-date\-iso\fR \fIISO8601\fR]
.RE
.PP
Alternative invocation:
.B python \-m engine.compare_cli
with the same arguments (from repository root).
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compare two Office Open XML Word documents (\fB.docx\fR) and write a new document containing
revision markup (insertions/deletions) produced by the Merck Document Comparison engine.
.PP
The program prints human-readable error messages to standard error on failure; success is
indicated only by exit status \fB0\fR and the presence of the output file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-original " " PATH
Path to the original (baseline) \fB.docx\fR file. Required.
.TP
.BR \-\-revised " " PATH
Path to the revised \fB.docx\fR file. Required.
.TP
.BR \-\-output " " PATH
Path for the generated \fB.docx\fR. Parent directories are created if necessary. Required.
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " PATH
Optional JSON file defining compare options (\fBignore_case\fR, \fBignore_whitespace\fR,
\fBignore_formatting\fR, \fBdetect_moves\fR \- all booleans). Invalid JSON or validation
errors cause exit status \fB2\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-author " " NAME
Author string stored on revision elements (default: \fBMerckDocCompare\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-date\-iso " " ISO8601
Optional fixed revision timestamp for reproducible output, e.g. \fB2026\-03\-28T12:00:00Z\fR.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid usage, unreadable config, bad JSON, or compare configuration validation failure.
.TP
.B 10
Preflight rejection (file type, archive issues, existing track changes, comments, etc.).
.TP
.B 11
Document or package structure problem (e.g. missing \fBword/document.xml\fR, XML parse error).
.TP
.B 12
Compare/emit failure or I/O error during generation.
.SH FILES
Input and output paths are user-specified. Optional configuration is a JSON object; see
.I docs/CLI\-MERCK\-COMPARE.md
in the repository for a full description.
.SH BUGS
Report issues in the project issue tracker per team workflow.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Full user guide:
.I docs/CLI\-MERCK\-COMPARE.md
\&.
.PP
Related:
.B python scripts/run_golden_corpus.py
(regression harness; separate from this CLI).
